Include DRF Community Calls info (#112)
DevRel-Foundation/governance: README.md

</details>
<details>
  <summary>
    <strong> 📚 DRF Community Calls Checklists</strong>
  </summary>

## Moderator 
When running a community call, please ensure you go through the following checklist:

Pre-Call (5-4 days in advance)

1. Please wait for the Crier to share the agenda. If the agenda hasn’t been announced and only 5 days remain before the call, kindly reach out to the Crier
2. Review new community proposals or announcements shared on GH Discussions and include in the agenda

During the Call

3. Welcome Atendees and invite them to write their names in the Google Doc
4. Go through Agenda Topics
5. Assign the roles for the next call
6. Keep teh conversation on track
7. Close the call on time

  
## Crier

Pre-Call (8-6 days in advance)

1. Go to https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/governance/discussions
2. Open a new entry
3. Copy Agenda template https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/governance/discussions/114
4. Edit brackets' info [  ]
5. Go to [google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I5dX4RbvJyt4Z2dTWsS1BjmzRQV8RHOJ5klJ_tZa_eg/edit?usp=sharing)
6. Copy content within `TEMPLATE - YYYY-MM-DD`
7. Paste bellow `Next Meeting`section
8. Edit brackets' info [  ]

> 9. Announce the GH discussion via Discord #📆weekly-calls channel using @here tag

Author: ```suggestion
9. Announce the GH discussion via Discord #📆weekly-calls channel using @everyone tag
```

Also, whether you are new to the DRF community calls or a regular participant, you can add your discussion topics as a comment in one of the [meeting note discussions](https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/governance/discussions/categories/meeting-notes) or bring them up during the call.

People can also share DevRel use cases, best practices, frameworks, and more by [opening a new Idea in GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/devrel-foundation/governance/discussions/new?category=ideas), which serves as the Foundation’s public forum. 

We are always looking for 5-10 minute presentations in future community calls to spark discussion with attendees and asynchronously.

</details>
<details>
  <summary>
    <strong> 📚 Roles in the DRF Community Calls</strong>
  </summary>

Roles include facilitator, moderator, scribe, and crier. 

Anyone can volunteer to take on any of these roles for upcoming community calls. People can volunteer to lead in one of these roles during the next call by contacting steering-committee@dev-rel.org

| **Role**| **Responsibilities**|**Notes**|**Recommended Experience**|
|---------|---------------------|---------------|---------------|

> |**Moderator**| (1) Leads the discussion by going through agenda items, ensuring each topic receives the time it needs, and keeping conversations focused AND (2) Opens the call by inviting participants to add their names to the agenda, make group introductions and introduce the concept of Chatham House Rules, LF Antitrust Policies and the DRF Code of Conduct  | Volunteering as a Moderator is a great way to develop facilitation skills and play an essential role in shaping community discussions. The Moderator must be on the call while the Crier can skip the call | This person attended some previous community calls and is familiarized with the format |

Reviewer: Do we have preferred links for Chatham House Rules and LF Antitrust Policies?

https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/governance/blob/main/code_of_conduct.md

Reviewer: CTA/link about how to volunteer to be a moderator?

> |**Scribe**| (1) Captures and summarizes key points during the call AND (2) share these notes with the community in the dedicated GitHub Discussion afterward| Serving as a Scribe builds attention to detail and provides a vital resource for transparent communication within the community | This person can have 0 experience and be a newcommer |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|**Scribe**| (1) Captures and summarizes key points during the call AND (2) share these notes with the community in the dedicated GitHub Discussion afterward| Serving as a Scribe builds attention to detail and provides a vital resource for transparent communication within the community | This person can be new to the community but should have some experience of taking notes in meetings |
```

> but should have some experience of taking notes in meetings

is my opinion

Reviewer: Maybe reference the additional training section.

> |**Crier**| (1) Keeps the community informed by announcing the agenda one week in advance in the DRF community mailing list and Discord channel| As the Crier, you enhance community engagement and ensure members are aware of discussion topics and opportunities to participate. The Moderator must be on the call while the Crier can skip the call| | This person can have 0 experience and be a newcommer |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|**Crier**| (1) Keeps the community informed by announcing the agenda one week in advance in the DRF community mailing list and Discord channel| As the Crier, you enhance community engagement and ensure members are aware of discussion topics and opportunities to participate. The Moderator must be on the call, while the Crier can skip the call | This person can have no experience and be a newcomer |
```

</details>

</details>
<details>
  <summary>
    <strong> 📚 DRF Community Calls Checklists</strong>
  </summary>

## Moderator 
When running a community call, please ensure you go through the following checklist:

Pre-Call (5-4 days in advance)

1. Please wait for the Crier to share the agenda. If the agenda hasn’t been announced and only 5 days remain before the call, kindly reach out to the Crier
2. Review new community proposals or announcements shared on GH Discussions and include in the agenda

During the Call

> 3. Welcome Atendees and invite tehm to write their names in the Google Doc

Author: ```suggestion
3. Welcome Atendees and invite them to write their names in the Google Doc
```

4. Go through Agenda Topics
5. Assign the roles for the next call
6. Keep teh conversation on track
7. Close the call on time

  
## Crier

Pre-Call (8-6 days in advance)

1. Go to https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/governance/discussions
2. Open a new entry
3. Copy Agenda template https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/governance/discussions/114
4. Edit brackets' info [  ]
5. Go to [google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I5dX4RbvJyt4Z2dTWsS1BjmzRQV8RHOJ5klJ_tZa_eg/edit?usp=sharing)
6. Copy content within `TEMPLATE - YYYY-MM-DD`
7. Paste bellow `Next Meeting`section
8. Edit brackets' info [  ]

> 9. Announce the GH discussion via Discord #📆weekly-calls channel using @here tag

Reviewer: `@here` only informs those that are online at the time. I think we should use `@everyone`.

10. Announce via community Mailing List (community@lists.dev-rel.org) https://lists.dev-rel.org/g/community
11. Ping the Moderator when work is finished

## Scribe

During the Call

> 1. Take notes in [google docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I5dX4RbvJyt4Z2dTWsS1BjmzRQV8RHOJ5klJ_tZa_eg/edit?usp=sharing) bellow the agenda items. Avoid using affiliations, just use initials of members

Author: ```suggestion
1. Take notes in [google docs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I5dX4RbvJyt4Z2dTWsS1BjmzRQV8RHOJ5klJ_tZa_eg/edit?usp=sharing) bellow the agenda items. Avoid using affiliations, just use initials of participants
```

  </details>

> ## Our Playbook - Operational Guidelines

Reviewer: @anajsana - to me, this suggests we have a playbook. But we don't presently, right?

Reviewer 2: This was my concern as well walking through the update. I think we have pieces of this strew about but I don't believe a playbook has been developed.

Reviewer 3: I think we've also closed the survey mentioned, correct?

Author: The playbook was discussed in the past to have as an extension of the Charter and for those documentation related to community processes (e.g file proposals, roles responsibilities in the community, etc). Since we are already bringing the community call roles as part of the official documentation in this repo, I thought it would be a good idea to fall under the Playbook idea, and as new processes and guidelines start to be in place, add them as new sections and have everything centralised into one big group (DRF Playbook)

Author: I will edit the survey info. I still need to open a new PR sharing the survey results with anonymized data for everyone to have access

Author: @katiewaz1977 can you please refer to the survey you mentioned? I thought I added something about the engagement survey that closed a few weeks ago, but I was wrong, so maybe you were referring to a different resource?

Reviewer 3: The Governance section says this:

There is also a brief [survey](https://discord.com/channels/1255563562449899573/1255564574380261426/1273351313001943172) that allows people to:

Express interest in getting more involved in the Foundation formation and how
Review and give feedback on the FAQs and [challenges](https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/governance/blob/main/challenges.md)
Express preferences for how and when the Foundation may communicate with you

It is no longer open, so this section should be removed.

Author: Thanks! section deleted

The DRF Playbook serves as a hands-on resource for the community. While the Charter provides a general overview of the project’s structure and governance, the Playbook covers specific operational details that ensure smooth participation and collaboration. It includes guidelines on how community participants can submit new proposals, where and how these proposals are discussed via community calls, and the community calls roles and responsibilities.

### DRF Community Calls

This group hosts community calls every other week. People can check the times and upcoming calls in the Groups.io calendar: https://lists.dev-rel.org/g/community/calendar

- AMER DevRel Found Community Call
- APAC & EMEA DevRel Found Community Call

These calls serve two main purposes:

> First, they provide a neutral and safe space to discuss topics important to the community, share ideas, and ask questions aligned with the mission of the DevRel Foundation. If you have a story to share, the recommended process is to open a new issue via GitHub Discussions (more info below) with the topic in mind. This allows the call moderators to bring these topics into sessions, initiate community discussions, and reach consensus, potentially leading to a concrete action item (e.g., should this become a working group or be included in the foundation, etc.).
> 
> Second, the calls serve as Open Office Hours to reach community consensus on the foundation's next phases and to address questions and blockers on DevRel Challenges and Frequently Asked Questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A neutral and safe space to discuss topics important to the community, share ideas, and ask questions aligned with the mission of the DevRel Foundation. If you have a story to share, the recommended process is to open a new issue via GitHub Discussions (more info below) with the topic in mind. This allows the call moderators to bring these topics into sessions, initiate community discussions, and reach a consensus, potentially leading to a concrete action item (e.g., should this become a working group or be included in the foundation, etc.).
2. Open Office Hours to reach community consensus on the foundation's next phases and to address questions and blockers on DevRel Challenges and Frequently Asked Questions.
```

<details>
  <summary>
    <strong> 📚 How to File Proposals and Discussion Topics </strong>
  </summary>

> The community can file proposals via the DRF Governance repo by opening a new entry in the GitHub Discussions Forum. Whether you are new to the DRF community calls or a regular participant, you can add your discussion topics as a comment below or bring them up during the call. People can also share DevRel use cases, best practices, frameworks, and more by opening a new issue in GitHub Discussions, which serves as the Foundation’s public forum. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The community can file proposals via the DRF Governance repo by [opening a new entry in the GitHub Discussions Forum](https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/governance/discussions/new/choose).

Also, whether you are new to the DRF community calls or a regular participant, you can add your discussion topics as a comment in one of the [meeting note discussions](https://github.com/DevRel-Foundation/governance/discussions/categories/meeting-notes) or bring them up during the call.

People can also share DevRel use cases, best practices, frameworks, and more by [opening a new Idea in GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/devrel-foundation/governance/discussions/new?category=ideas), which serves as the Foundation’s public forum. 
```

Anyone can volunteer to take on any of these roles for upcoming community calls. People can volunteer to lead in one of these roles during the next call by contacting steering-committee@dev-rel.org

| **Role**       | **Responsibilities**                                                                                                                                              |
|----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Moderator**  | Leads the discussion by going through agenda items, ensuring each topic receives the time it needs, and keeping conversations focused. Volunteering as a Moderator is a great way to develop facilitation skills and play an essential role in shaping community discussions.|
| **Scribe**     | Captures and summarizes key points during the call, sharing these notes with the community in the dedicated GitHub Discussion afterward. Serving as a Scribe builds attention to detail and provides a vital resource for transparent communication within the community.|

> | **Crier**      | Keeps the community informed by announcing the agenda in the community mailing list and Discord channel. As the Crier, you enhance community engagement and ensure members are aware of discussion topics and opportunities to participate.|

Reviewer: The Moderator and Crier have always seemed very similar to me. And these definitions do suggest considerable overlap. Or am I missing something?

Author: There are a few differences, maybe I should be more specific in the description to make it clear:

- The Moderator must be on the call while the Crier can skip the call
- The Crier announces and encourages community participation _prior_ to the call starting and during the same week or the scheduled call. To put a clear example it would be that person who writes in Discord and Community list 

> "hey @ channel, ICYMI, the agenda is ready via GH discussions and google doc. Please don't forget to add your discussion topics, or open a new issue in GH discussions. 
> 
> Community calls are a neutral and safe space who follows chatham house rules and LF antitrust policy. The aim of these calls is to engage with the community and initiate conversations around proposals, challenges, questions, best practices, and more together.
> 
> Bellow are call details:
> 
> [Time] [Day] [Type]"

- The moderator is the one who is on the call at the scheduled time and hout to go through agenda topics. To make things more simple, the moderator also acts as the Facilitator, who opens the call, inviting participants to share their names in the agenda, and make group intros. it also introduces the concept of chathan house rules and informs about the DRF Code of conduct
